docs: Add comprehensive multi-file documentation (DEV-1157) (#239)
marsfoundation/spark-alm-controller: docs/RATE_LIMITS.md

# Rate Limits

This document describes the rate limiting system used in the Spark ALM Controller.

## Overview

> The `RateLimits` contract enforces rate limits on the controller contracts. Rate limits are defined using `keccak256` hashes to identify which function to apply the rate limit to. This design allows flexibility in future function signatures while maintaining the same high-level functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `RateLimits` contract enforces rate limits on the controller contracts. Rate limits are keyed by individual `bytes32` hashes derived from a `bytes32` identifier unique to the integration and function, and optionally some data unique to the recipient, assets, pool, etc to apply the rate limit to. This design allows flexibility in future function signatures while maintaining the same high-level functionality.
```

Author: Updated

### Whitelisting via Rate Limit Keys

Rate limit keys are constructed by hashing together a **function identifier** and an **address or ID** (e.g., pool address, vault address, token address). This mechanism serves as an implicit **whitelist/onboarding system**:

> - **Specific integrations only:** Only addresses that have a rate limit key configured can be used with rate-limited functions

Reviewer: Remove this odd line.

Author: Removed

- **Examples:**
  - A specific Uniswap V4 pool must have its rate limit key set before it can be used
  - A specific Morpho vault must be onboarded by setting its rate limit key

>   - A specific Curve pool requires rate limit configuration before operations

Reviewer: Add real examples
```suggestion
- **Examples:**
  - Depositing liquidity to a specific Uniswap V4 pool requires the rate limit key `keccak256(abi.encode(LIMIT_UNISWAP_V4_DEPOSIT, poolId))` to be set
  - Withdrawing an aToken from Aave requires the rate limit key `keccak256(abi.encode(LIMIT_AAVE_WITHDRAW, aToken))` to be set
  - Preparing a USDe burn requires the rate limit key `LIMIT_SUSDE_COOLDOWN` to be set
```

Author: Updated

- **Security benefit:** Prevents relayers from interacting with arbitrary/malicious contracts - only governance-approved integrations have valid rate limit keys

> - **Operational benefit:** New integrations are explicitly onboarded by setting rate limit parameters, providing a clear audit trail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Security benefit:** Prevents relayers from interacting with arbitrary/malicious contracts - only governance-approved integrations have valid rate limit keys
- **Operational benefit:** New integrations can be onboarded with lower rate limits to ease into use, and then increased to manage ongoing risk/exposure, and providing a clear audit trail
```

Author: Updated

**Rationale:** Swapping USDC back to USDS effectively returns value to the system, so the rate limit is restored.

#### PSM3 Integration (No Cancellation, No minShares)

**Decision:** Rate limits are **not** cancelled in the PSM3 integration (ForeignController).

| Operation | Rate Limit Behavior |
|-----------|---------------------|
| `depositPSM` | Decreases rate limit |
| `withdrawPSM` | Decreases rate limit (no cancellation) |

**Additional Decision:** `minShares` parameter is not added to PSM3 operations.

**Rationale:**
- The PSM3 integration will be deprecated soon, making additional safety mechanisms a poor investment of development resources
- The PSM3 contract is immutable, limiting the attack surface
- Prices cannot be manipulated in PSM3 due to its design (1:1 swap mechanism)
- Risk window is time-limited due to planned deprecation

#### Maple Integration (No Cancellation)

**Decision:** Maple cancel redemption requests and deposits are **not** rate-limit cancelled.

**Rationale:**
- Maple pools are permissioned environments
- Pool dynamics are slower-moving compared to DEX liquidity
- Lower risk of rapid value extraction

> - Redemption requests can be cancelled by governance if needed without creating attack vectors

Reviewer: @lucas-manuel Can you confirm this rationale?

Author: Removed the last line, I confirmed this with monet and santi in Slack

pipx install eth-wake
pip install eth-wake
```

Execute the printer:

```bash
❯ wake --config printers/wake.toml print rate-limits
[14:16:59] Found 16 *.sol files in 0.51 s                                                 print.py:466
           Loaded previous build in 0.47 s                                             compiler.py:862
           Compiled 0 files using 0 solc runs in 0.00 s                               compiler.py:1242
           Processed compilation results in 0.01 s                                    compiler.py:1495
📦 Checking MainnetController...
✅ Successfully checked MainnetController...
📦 Checking ForeignController...
✅ Successfully checked ForeignController...
```

A zero exit-code indicates the spec is satisfied.

### Regenerating Wake Config

If `printers/wake.toml` goes out of sync, regenerate it:

```bash
wake up config
```

This reads Foundry remappings and creates a new `wake.toml` file (which can then be moved to `/printers`).

---

## Rate Limit Configuration Guidelines

Rate limits must take into account:

1. **Risk tolerance** for a given protocol
2. **Griefing attacks** (e.g., repetitive transactions with high slippage by malicious relayer)

> **Note:** Unlimited rate limits can be used as an onboarding tool for new integrations.

Reviewer: While true that ti is technically possible, this seems counter to one of the uses listed above, and counter to good practice. Best to just remove it, or at least explain when it actually makes sense to have an infinite rate limit.

Author: [Removed](url)

> ### Withdrawal Requirements

Reviewer: This seems unnecessary and redundant. All rate-limit functions need non-zero rate limits in order to succeed. Best to remove it.

Author: Removed cause theres a section in OPERATIONAL_REQUIREMENTS.md already
